In order to use X509 certificate based security in iothub, we need x509 certificate chain which includes root certificate and any intermediate certificates
There are several ways to get ca certificates
1. Purchase from root certificate authority - Recommended for production
2. Creating our own certificate using thirdparty tools like open-ssl
3. Use an intermediate certificate  signed by an existing root certificate
(each certf in the chain is signed by private key of previous certf. this arrangement establishes a chain of trust from the root certf)
1. install openssl
2. use the scripts included in the SDK
3. In an elevated powershell prompt, first we bring the functions required in the scope by running the ca-certs.ps1 script. this adds lot of helper functions to the 
global namespace
4. Create new certificate chain by running the New-CaCertsCertChain command. This will create certf and add them to windows certificate store. the intermediate 
certificates will be signed by root certificate authority. one root certif and 3 interm certificates are created
5. In the azure portal, add the certificates,
Verify the certificate, we need to provide proof that we actually own this certificate. proof that we own it by creating a new cerificate with a special code in the
subject line
6. in the iothub, certificates, generate verification code, copy the code and switch back to powershell
New-CACertsVerificationCert "verification code"
This generates a verification certificate which then we need to upload to iothub
7. now the iothub certificate is created and verified. We can now add a new device to iothub with x509ca signed authentication type
8. To use this device, we have to create device certificate. in powershell, use below command to create device certificate
New-CACertsDevice x509cadevice1
This will create a cert and an associated pfx that will trace back to root certificate. We can now use this pfx to connect to iothub. Add pfc file to solution
hee insetad of checking the certf against thumbprint, iothub checks the certificate chain
if the device certi is valid and signed by root or intermediate certf then the device is authenticated



root certificate, secures the iothub
device certificates are self signed certificates or ca certificates
we can manage them in azure cli using azure iot extension
